hello everyone so this video is going to
cover more of the
advanced features of the obsidian
incremental writing plugin
the plugin is actually quite simple so
none of these features are going to be
super advanced or complex
but i'm going to be covering things like
customization and having multiple cues
things that not everyone is necessarily
going to want if you're confused and you
don't know how you ended up here you're
probably going to want to go and watch
that first video because it explains the
basic features of the plugin
like adding things to the incremental
writing queue setting the priority
setting the first rep date and reviewing
your repetitions
and if you want a basic introduction to
incremental writing
i'll leave a link to my video which
explains the concepts behind it
in more depth in the description okay so
let's just jump straight into things
okay so the first thing we can take a
look at is the settings page here you
can see that you have a bunch of options
for storing your cues so for example you
can choose a queue folder
which is the path to the folder where
all of the incremental writing cues that
you create
are going to be stored you can also set
a default queue which is the first queue
that is going to be chosen when you
start up the plugin
so there are a number of reasons why i
decided to include the ability to have
multiple cues
firstly it allows you to separate a main
queue of repetitions that are very
important to you
and you intend to repeat over a long
period of time like years
from less important cues where you might
only want to repeat them over a series
of weeks or months
secondly it allows you to have cues with
different scheduling options
which i'll get into later so let's take
a look at how you can create and load
different cues if you take a look at the
bottom right of the screen you can see
that
the status bar shows you which queue you
currently have loaded
so in order to create a new queue all
you need to do is use one of the methods
that i talked about in the previous
video
to add something to a queue and specify
which cue you want to add it to
so let me give you an example if i go
over to the concepts folder
and click add folder to iwq you can see
that right at the top there's this
option to specify
the queue that i want to add this to so
what i'll do is i'll just type in the
name of a new queue
and now if i go to that folder you can
see that a new queue has been created
for me and it contains all of those
repetitions that i just added
so if i want to load the queue that i
just created i can use the
loader queue command and you can see
that i have that new testing queue
available to me so if i click on that so
you should be able to see in the bottom
right
that the status bar has been updated and
the new queue has been loaded
okay so that pretty much covers how to
create and load different
incremental writing cues but let's go
back to why you would actually want to
do this in the first place
so i mentioned earlier that you might
want to have separate cues for those
repetitions that you want to repeat over
a longer period of time like years
and those repetitions that you only want
to repeat over weeks or months
so the method that i've been using so
far is to have one main queue
which uses the a factor scheduling then
i intermittently
create and delete these subset cues
which i only want to keep around
for a week or so and for those cues i
tend to use the simple scheduling option
so let's talk about scheduling a factor
scheduling basically refers to
scheduling where you have a next
repetition date
and you have an interval between the
last repetition
and the next repetition each time you
hit next repetition what will happen is
the current interval will get multiplied
by the a factor to determine the next
interval
and the next repetition date the
interval between each repetition grows
geometrically over time
so i'll see it less and less as time
progresses
and i'll have more time in between each
repetition to
create new ideas create new creative
associations and so on
you can think of this as a very
primitive version of the space
repetition
algorithm that's used to schedule
question and answer cards
in programs like anki and super memo now
i'll quickly create a queue with the
simple scheduler option and explain what
simple scheduling means
so if i go to my incremental writing
settings and i change the default
scheduler to
simple scheduler and then if i just go
back to the concepts folder
add the folder to the iw queue and
if i just pick a new queue
and if i add that to the queue
the simple scheduler is just a basic
round robin
each time you hit next repetition the
current repetition
will basically just get moved like this
to the end of the queue and the
priorities will be updated to set this
repetition at the end of the queue
so with the simple scheduler you'll
basically just see your repetitions in a
cycle
without your repetitions being scheduled
into the future or having an interval or
anything like that
so let me give you a really brief
demonstration of why this is useful to
me
so if i just reload my main incremental
writing queue
and if i just load the current
repetition
so when i'm going through my main
repetitions i might realize that this
one
is coming very close to being finished
and sort of publishable
so once i finish the content for the
main article one thing that i want to
make sure is that
all of the links contained within the
article are finished as well
so one of the things i can do is add all
of the links within the current article
to a new queue and typically i choose a
simple queue
which will just show me each of the
links contained within this article
in a cycle so that i can just keep going
through the cycle
until all of the links contained within
this article
are fully fleshed out and ready to be
published so i actually created a
special command to do this
so if i click on the add links within
notes to queue
i have the option to bulk add all of the
links inside the notes
to a new queue and so now you can see
that it's generated a new incremental
writing queue for me
and it's going to be using the simple
scheduler and so i can just keep hitting
next repetition
until i've finished adding everything i
need to
to these links and then i can just
delete this simple key
okay guys so that's it for this video i
hope it was useful and let me know if
you have any suggestions or ideas that
can improve the plugin
thanks guys